docs: adding a page for Nautilus and Seal integration pattern (#23981)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/concepts/cryptography/nautilus/nautilus-seal.mdx

---

> title: Seal integration with Nautilus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Seal Integration with Nautilus
```

## What this enables

You can use this pattern to:

* Decrypt sensitive data inside an enclave, without exposing secrets to the host.
* Encrypt new data with public keys from Seal key servers, ensuring only authorized enclaves can later decrypt it.
* Build trusted compute flows across secure storage (e.g., [Walrus](https://docs.wal.app)), on-chain objects (e.g., Sui), or other data sources.

The encrypted data can arrive at the enclave from any source, as long as it was encrypted under the corresponding Seal access policy.

## Why it matters

* End-to-end protection: Data is encrypted before reaching the enclave and decrypted only within a verified environment.
* No secrets on host: Decryption keys and ephemeral secrets stay inside the enclave.
* Flexible integration: Supports arbitrary payloads (e.g., credentials, AI models, gameplay states) from different input sources.

## Learn more

See the full [Seal and Nautilus example app](https://github.com/MystenLabs/nautilus/tree/main/src/nautilus-server/src/apps/seal-example) for a reference implementation of this pattern.

> You can also explore [seal-kms](https://github.com/lockin-bot/seal-kms), a minimal open-source key management service for Nautilus, built using Seal and contributed by the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also explore [seal-kms](https://github.com/lockin-bot/seal-kms), a minimal, community built, open-source key management service for Nautilus using Seal.
```

---
title: Seal Integration with Nautilus
description: Learn about using Seal for secure secret use within Nautilus enclaves.
keywords: [ seal, seal secret management, seal secrets, nautilus, enclaves ]
---

> The Nautilus and [Seal](https://seal-docs.wal.app) integration pattern allows Nautilus enclaves to securely fetch public keys and identity-based decryption keys from Seal key servers. These keys can be used to encrypt or decrypt sensitive data directly inside the enclaves, ensuring that data is protected end-to-end, both at rest and in use.

Reviewer 2: `securely fetch public keys` i dont think this makes sense. `securely fetch identity-based encryption` sounds good.

> The Nautilus and [Seal](https://seal-docs.wal.app) integration pattern allows Nautilus enclaves to securely fetch public keys and identity-based decryption keys from Seal key servers. These keys can be used to encrypt or decrypt sensitive data directly inside the enclaves, ensuring that data is protected end-to-end, both at rest and in use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Nautilus and [Seal](https://seal-docs.wal.app) integration pattern allows users to encrypt any data to an enclave binary.
```

This pattern is ideal for use cases that require confidential data handling, secure AI workflows, or fine-grained access control policies enforced cryptographically.

## What this enables

Use this pattern to:

* Decrypt sensitive data inside an enclave, without exposing secrets to the host.
* Encrypt new data with public keys from Seal key servers, ensuring only authorized enclaves can later decrypt it.
* Build trusted compute flows across secure storage (e.g., [Walrus](https://docs.wal.app)), on-chain objects (e.g., Sui), or other data sources.

The encrypted data can arrive at the enclave from any source, as long as it was encrypted under the corresponding Seal access policy.

## Why it matters

> * End-to-end protection: Data is encrypted before reaching the enclave and decrypted only within a verified environment.

Reviewer 2: not sure if this is "why it matters".. but you can say this is a good pattern because you get the guarantees that only the enclave can have access to your secret

> * No secrets on host: Decryption keys and ephemeral secrets stay inside the enclave.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
